---
title: IoT devices and Customer Support
date: '2017-01-01'
cover: /assets/iot-devices.png
slug: iot
category: tech
tags:
  - programming
  - stuff
  - other
---
"The more complex something becomes, the more are the chances it will fail".

What does this mean for the current revolution happening with smart devices? A lot of us are excited about the fascinating technologies that are making common household items smarter. A smart cooker e.g. can be controlled by an app from our office. In our busy lives we are all excited by the prospect of a ready hot meal when we reach home after a hard day at work. We can also program our smart coffee maker to automatically make coffee for us when amazon's alexa wakes us up in the morning. However, with these technologies, something as simple as a coffee maker has also become technologically very complex. With this added complexity do things break? And what happens when things don't work as expected?

The following article from Harvard Business Review perfectly illustrates this problem

https://hbr.org/2014/12/who-provides-tech-support-for-the-internet-of-things

To quote frome the article

"Connected technology is impressive, but it leaves us wanting more from the products themselves, and the brands that make and sell them. The optimization and integration of devices remains cumbersome and disjointed, and as connected “things” venture further and further away from traditional technologies for which some level of support is already provided, toward products and packages like Internet-powered toothbrushes, crock-pots, and home security systems, the support gap will only grow. "

So what does a customer do when they have a problem? According to a report by IoT tech support firm plumchoice 

https://www.plumchoice.com/plumchoice-67-percent-of-consumers-dumbfounded-by-common-smart-devices/

"Where do customers turn for help?

46 percent of consumers suffer in silence and do not ask for help

50 percent turn to a friend or family member

17 percent contact the product manufacturer; and

14 percent go back to the retailer who sold them the product"

A lot of these smart device (also called IoT or internet of things) companies compund these problems by using wrong tools to provider customer support. 

Big consumer electronic companies have traditionaly relied on providing support over phone. A lot of them still rely on using phone support for their newer smart devices. I think we have all experienced the horrors of receiving customer support over phone. We can all relate to trying to explain modem lights to an agent at a comcast call center. Though a lot of consumers still prefer to talk to someone about their support issues, voice is a very difficult medium to communicate these issues. Sometimes a picture sent from a customer's smart phone can be worth 20 minutes of time trying to communicate the same over phone. 

A lot of smaller companies do not have the resources to provide phone support and tend to use email based help desk plaforms (like zendesk). Howvever, in the era of consumers used to instant communication via smart phone apps, email feels more like the new snail mail. A typical email communication over a help desk system can often take days. No wonder a lot of customers just suffer in silence. However, this slience can be very costly for these companies as they not only miss out on valuable feedback from early adopters, they also run into the the risk of these customers venting frustrations on social networking and product review sites.

We at Support Genie have recognized this need for customers to get instant support in the medium and device of their choosing. With our support plaform customer's can contact a support agent from their desktops or mobile phones. For mobile devices we also provide an iOS and Android app for customers to communicate with support specialists. These apps let a customer communicate by either voice, video or instant chat. We beleive these tools should help IoT and smart device manufacturer's resolve their customer's issues without all the frustrations that come with traditional support tools. This will not only help companies receive critical feedback needed for a new product but also get better product reviews and more likes on social media.
