---
title: Welcome to Tech World
date: 2020-04-18T08:53:48.148Z
cover: /assets/1.jpg
slug: techworld
category: Computers & Technology
tags:
  - tech
  - techworld
  - techgeek
---
In 1995 everyone in tech wanted a slice of the dot-com boom, but today, fields like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and big data drive the tech venture capital (VC) of the world to dig into their pockets. Computer vision is at the intersection of all these data-driven innovations. While uses for computer vision are well-known within the tech world, the term is still virtually unknown to the general public, even though many of them are already benefiting from it.

What Is Computer Vision?

The initial goal of computer vision was to enable machines to see the visual world and interpret it the way a human would, but AI has advanced computer vision beyond human vision and now machines can see things humans can’t, like air quality and temperature. Big data is essential to furthering what computer vision can recognize and the conclusions it draws from what it sees, which is why companies leading the way in the field are tech giants that already have a foot in the data gathering and machine learning door.

Where Is Computer Vision Being Used Today?

Major players in the computer vision and AI world include user-generated content platforms like PicsArt, Pinterest and Instagram whose users make accessing data and tracking behavior a walk in the park. Such companies also use object recognition, but rather than using it to determine risks on the road they use it to categorize posts and make advanced editing options available to end-users.

Image segmentation is the part of computer vision that makes it possible for users on various social media and editing platforms to do things like blur background images automatically (an effect called bokeh in traditional photography) or even transpose a subject onto a new background with a quick point and click. Applying filters to images is also dependent on computer vision technology. Style transfers, which are filters that allow subjects to take on the look of a painting or pointillism or pop art character, only work because computer vision makes it possible to map three-dimensional objects and sense not only color and shadow but also depth and shape. This is also how augmented reality (AR) masks, filters and stickers work, and it's the reason you can move your head while using such features. Even smart filters, like those used in popular photo editing software and apps, depend on a vast well of data from which to draw information.

Who Else Is Pioneering The Future Of Computer Vision?

One of the most complex and high profile ways computer vision is being used is in the advancement of autonomous cars. Driverless vehicles depend on advanced AI computer vision, with deep machine learning woven throughout for guidance. Since data is the gas that fuels AI and ML advancement, it’s no surprise that Google owns the most advanced driverless technology on the market.

Waymo, Google’s name for its self-driving car project, is growing its computer vision through testing on public streets. By gathering data from real-world scenarios and recording variables that can occur during daily driving, the tech giant will be able to implement even more complex object recognition algorithms and tracking methods. Using ML and AI to drive advancement means less legwork for developers and continual improvement. In fact, analysts estimate driverless cars will become widespread sometime between 2020 and 2040.

Similar techniques are being used to develop computer vision security cameras, to conduct marketing research (by analyzing the pupils of testers as they try different products and watch different ads), create health care scanners that help technicians, and even build smarter green buildings that react to daily usage.

How Does Computer Vision Benefit The User Experience?

Computer vision provides direct benefits to the user by cutting down on development times and creating an end-product that meshes with what the user wants and needs to do. Rather than functionalities being determined behind closed doors among a small group of developers and C-level executives, features are evolving based on natural usage. This is a boon for both developers, who can rely on AI and ML to identify major patterns for them, and for users, who end up with a more tailored user-friendly product. Computer vision is the future, and it’s a massive step toward creating truly invisible technology that adapts to users’ needs instantly and predicts their future needs with uncanny accuracy.
